README.markdown, before:

# mongoid_money

Be aware! This gem currently requires mongoid to be included in your gemfile as such

    gem "mongoid", :git => "git://github.com/mongoid/mongoid.git"

due to a type casting bug introduced in Mongoid version 2.0.0. The fix has not been released to rubygems.org yet.

## Description

A simple gem that creates a Money datatype for Mongoid.

## Installation

Include the gem in your Gemfile

    gem 'mongoid_money'
    
## Usage

Now you can do things in your Mongoid documents like

    field :price, :type => Money, :default => 9.99.dollars

or 

    field :price, :type => Money, :default => 10.dollars

or

    field :price, :type => Money, :default => 99.cents

All Money values are converted and stored in mongo as cents.

You can also query against your Money fields. Just do the following:

    Item.where(:price => 5.dollars)

or

    Item.where(:price.gt => 10.dollars)



## Contributing to mongoid_money
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Jeff Bozek. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

Commit message:

adding support for fractions of cent

README.markdown, after:

# mongoid_money

Be aware! This gem currently requires mongoid to be included in your gemfile as such

    gem "mongoid", :git => "git://github.com/mongoid/mongoid.git"

due to a type casting bug introduced in Mongoid version 2.0.0. The fix has not been released to rubygems.org yet.

## Description

A simple gem that creates a Money datatype for Mongoid.

## Installation

Include the gem in your Gemfile

    gem 'mongoid_money'
    
## Usage

Now you can do things in your Mongoid documents like

    field :price, :type => Money, :default => 9.99.dollars

or 

    field :price, :type => Money, :default => 10.dollars

or

    field :price, :type => Money, :default => 99.cents

All Money values are converted and stored in mongo as cents.

You can also query against your Money fields. Just do the following:

    Item.where(:price => 5.dollars)

or

    Item.where(:price.gt => 10.dollars)

If you want to store fractions of a cent you can also adjust the multiplier (default is 100):

    10.123.dollars # => 10.12
    Money.multiplier = 1000
    10.123.dollars # => 10.123

## Contributing to mongoid_money
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Jeff Bozek. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.
